The Project Gutenberg eBook of Nuts to crack, Multum in parvo
library, v. 2, no. 20, August 1895, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Nuts to crack, Multum in parvo library, v. 2, no. 20, August 1895
       A galaxy of puzzles, riddles, conundrums, etc.

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: December 12, 2022 [eBook #69528]

Language: English

Produced by: Demian Katz, Craig Kirkwood, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (Images courtesy
             of the Digital Library@Villanova University.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NUTS TO CRACK, MULTUM IN
PARVO LIBRARY, V. 2, NO. 20, AUGUST 1895 ***


Transcriber’s Note:

Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_), and text
enclosed by equal signs is in bold (=bold=).

Additional Transcriber’s Notes are at the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

MULTUM IN PARVO LIBRARY.

Entered at the Boston Post office as second class matter.

Vol. 2. AUG., 1895. Published Monthly. No. 20.




NUTS TO CRACK


  A Galaxy of Puzzles, Riddles,
  Conundrums, Etc.

  Smallest Magazine in the world. Subscription price
  50 cts. per year. Single Copies 5 cts. each.

  PUBLISHED BY
  A. B. COURTNEY,
  Room 74, 45 Milk Street,
  BOSTON, MASS.




Two Puzzling Queries.


Read the following surprising sentence.

=All 0.=

_Ans._ Nothing after all.

Make one word of the letters of words _new door_.

_Ans._ One word.




Grammatical Puzzle.


  Let the rich, great and noble, banquet in the festal halls,
    And pass the hours away, as the most thoughtless revel;
  Then seek the poor man’s dreary home, whose very dingy walls
    Proclaim full well to all how low his rank and level.

Take away one letter from a word in the above stanza and substitute
another, leaving the word so metamorphosed still a word of the
English language; and, by that change, totally alter the syntactical
construction of the whole sentence, changing the moods and tenses of
verbs, turning verbs into nouns, nouns into adjectives, and adjectives
into adverbs, etc., and so make the entire stanza bear quite a
different meaning from that which it has as it stands above.




Answer to Grammatical Puzzle.


Take away L in the subjunctive “Let” at the beginning of the first
line, and substitute S, and so turn it into the imperative “Set,” when
the changes which necessarily follow will be immediately apparent.




Conundrums.


1. Why is ambition like a weathercock? Because it is a vain and
glittering thing to aspire (_a-spire_).

2. What preserve would an egg name if it could speak? Ma-me-laid
(_Marmelade_).

3. What is the difference between a schoolmaster and an engine driver?
One trains the mind, the other minds the train.

4. Why are railways like laundresses? Because they have “ironed” the
world, and occasionally done a little mangling.

5. Which is the most difficult train to catch? The 12:50, because it is
ten to one if you do catch it.

6. What nation does a criminal dread most? Condem-nation.

7. What musical instrument invites you to fish? Cast-a-net (_castanet_).

8. What trees flourish best upon the hearth? Ashes.

9. Which is the queen of the roses, and why? The rose of the watering
pot, because it rains (_reigns_) over them all.

10. Why is a dog biting his own tail like a good manager? Because he
makes both ends meet.

11. Why is love like pattens? Because it elevates the soul (_sole_).

12. Why are stars the best astronomers? Because they have studded
(_studied_) the heavens since the Creation.

13. If Mr. Rowland Hill were to give each of his children a gold dollar
why would he be like the rising sun? Because he tips the little Hills
with gold.

14. What is the difference between Mario and Cardinal Wiseman? One
performs mass in white and the other mass in yellow (_Masaniello_).

15. What is the difference between a pastry cook and a bill sticker?
One puffs up paste and the other pastes up puffs.

16. Who was the first whistler, and what was his tune? The wind, when
he whistled “Over the hills and far away.”

17. Why have fowls no future state? Because they have their next world
in this world (_necks twirled in this world_).

18. Which is the easiest of the three professions? Divinity; because it
is easier to _preach_ than to _practice_.

19. Why are your nose and chin always at variance? Because words are
continually passing between them.

20. What kind of vice is that which people shun if they are ever so
bad? Ad-vice.

21. Why should a little man never marry a bouncing widow? Because he
would be called “the widow’s mite.”

22. What is that which every one wishes for and yet tries to get rid
of? A good appetite.

23. What kind of sweetmeats did they have in the Ark? Preserved pairs
(_pears_).

24. Why are potatoes and corn like certain sinners of old? Because
having _eyes_ they see not, and _ears_ they hear not.

25. Why is wit like a Chinese lady’s foot? Because _brevity_ is the
_sole_ of it.

26. Why is a man who does not bet as bad as one who does? Because he is
no bettor.

27. Which travels at the greatest speed, heat or cold? Heat, for you
can easily _catch cold_.

28. Why is a spider a good correspondent? Because he drops a line by
every post.

29. If you suddenly saw a house on fire, what three celebrated authors
would you feel inclined to name? Dickens, Howitt, Burns (_Dickens! How
it burns_).

30. Why should the male sex avoid the letter A? Because it makes men,
mean.

31. What kind of wine is both meat and drink? Old port, with a crust.

32. Why are people who stutter not to be relied on? Because they are
always breaking their word.

33. Why is a game of cards like a timber yard? Because there are always
a great many _deals_ in it.

34. What is the difference between forms and ceremonies? You sit upon
one and stand upon the other.

35. In what color should a secret be kept? Inviolate (_in violet_).

36. Which would you rather have, five silver dollars or a five-dollar
bill? The latter, because you _double_ it when you put it in your
pocket, and find it _in-creases_ when you take it out.

37. In what part of the church do they ring the bells (_belles_)? At
the altar.

38. We will send you 100 useful articles for 10 cts., postpaid. W. S.
Everett & Co., Lynn, Mass.

39. What is that of which the common sort is best? Sense.

40. Why should a perfumer be a good editor? Because he is accustomed to
make _elegant extracts_.

41. Why is a man like a green gooseberry? Because any woman can make a
_fool_ of him.

42. What is the color of a grass plot covered with snow? Invisible
green.

43. Why ought a greedy man to wear a plaid waistcoat? To keep a check
upon his stomach.

44. Why is an accepted suitor like a person guilty of a crime? Because
he ought to be transported.

45. Send 10 cents to Keystone Book Co., P. O. Box 1634, Philadelphia,
Pa., and you will receive 12 new and complete books, entirely different
from the set of which this “Nuts to Crack” book is sold with.

46. Why is an avaricious man like one troubled with a bad memory?
Because he is always forgetting.

47. What is the best kind of tea? Pacific Tea.

48. Why is a girl not a noun? Because a lass (_alas!_) is an
interjection.

49. Why are indolent persons’ beds too short for them? Because they lie
too long in them.

50. When is a man like a looking-glass? When he reflects.

51. When is a window like a star? When it is a skylight.

52. Why is a widower like a house in a state of dilapidation? Because
he wants re-pairing.

53. What part of their infant tuition have old bachelors and old maids
most profited by? Learning to _go alone_.

54. When is a wineglass like an accomplished prediction? When it is
fulfilled (_full-filled_).

55. Which of the heathen gods is most resorted to in sickness? Mercury.

56. Why is the letter E like death? Because it is the end of life.

57. Why is a lady in a cotton dress like anything published? Because
she appears in _print_.

58. What parts of speech are shopkeepers most anxious to dispose of?
Articles.

59. Why are weary persons like carriage wheels? Because they are tired.

60. When is a door not a door? When it’s ajar.

61. What is that which we all eat and drink, though it is sometimes a
woman and sometimes a man? A toast.

62. Why would a tanner make a good chemist? Because he understands
oxides (_ox hides_).

63. Why is Ireland like a bottle of wine? Because it has _Cork_ in it.

64. Send 12 cents in stamps to Rex Company, Box 494, Philadelphia, Pa.,
and you will receive one package of tea, one silver plated thimble, one
Colorado gold pen and one gold watch chain. Don’t miss this great offer.

65. Why is a well trained horse like a benevolent man? Because it stops
at the sound of woe (_whoa_).

66. Why is the port of New Haven like a very wonderful phenomenon in
acoustics? Because it includes a part of the sea, called the Sound; and
_that_ is the only _sound_ that you can _see_.

67. When may a man be considered to be really over head and ears in
debt? When he owes for his wig.




A Batch of Puzzles.


_See Answers Following._

1. The following letters are inscribed on a stone tablet placed
immediately above the Ten Commandments in a country church in the
northwest of England, and are deciphered with only one letter:

    P R S V R Y P R F C T M N!
  V R K P T H S P R C P T S T N.

2. If the =B= m t put some: but if the =B=.

3. What difference is there between twice eight and fifty, and twice
fifty-eight--and what is their product?

4. In an army consisting of 187 squadrons of horse, each 157 men, and
207 battalions, each 560 men--how many effective soldiers, supposing
that in 7 hospitals there are 473 sick?

5. The Spectator mentions a club of fat people, whose number was only
15, and yet weighed no less than 3 tons--what was the weight of each
person?

6. Three boys met a servant maid carrying apples to the market. The
first took half what she had, but returned to her ten; the second took
one-third, but returned two; and the third took away half those she had
left, but returned her one. She had then twelve apples left--how many
had she at first?

7. A schoolmaster being asked how many scholars he had, said: “If I
had as many, half as many, and one-quarter as many more, I should have
88”--how many had he?

8. A person having about him a certain number of Portugal pieces, said:
“If the third, fourth and sixth of them were added together, they would
make 54.” I desire to know how many he had?

9. A man overtaking a maid driving a flock of geese, said to her: “How
do you do, sweetheart; where are you going with these 30 geese?” “No,
sir,” said she, “I have not 30; but if I had as many more, half as many
more, and 5 geese besides, I should have 30.” How many had she?

10. Three persons discoursing concerning their ages: says H, “I am 30
years of age;” says K, “I am as old as H, and one-fourth of L;” and
says L, “I am as old as you both.” What was the age of each person?

11. What is the difference between twice 8 and 20, and twice 28; as
also between twice 5 and 50, and twice 55?

12. A schoolmaster being asked how many scholars he had, said if he had
as many more, one-half as many, and one-fourth as many, he should have
99. How many had he?

13. An ancient lady, being asked how old she was, to avoid a direct
answer, said: “I have 9 children, and there are 3 years between the
birth of each of them; the eldest was born when I was 19 years old,
which is now exactly the age of the youngest.” How old was the lady?

14. A gentleman went to sea at 17 years of age; 8 years after that he
had a son born, who lived 40 years, and died before his father; after
whom the father lived twice twenty years, and then died also. What was
the age of the father when he died?

15. A person said he had 20 children, that it happened there was a year
and a half between each of their ages; his eldest son was born when
he was 24 years old, and the age of the youngest is 21. What was the
father’s age?

16. A sheepfold was robbed three nights successively; the first night
one-half of the sheep were stolen and half a sheep more; the second
night half the remainder were lost, and half a sheep more; the last
night they took half that were left and half a sheep more, by which
time they were reduced to 20. How many were there at first?

17. There are two numbers, the one 48, the other twice as much. What is
the difference between their sum and difference?

18. Two men depart both from one place, the one goes north the other
south; the one goes 7 miles and the other 11 miles a day. How far are
they distant at the twelfth day of their departure?

19.

  When first the marriage knot was tied between my wife and me,
  Her age did mine as far exceed, as three times three does three;
  But when seven years, and half seven years, we man and wife had been,
  My age came then as near to her’s as eight is to sixteen.
  What was each of our ages when married?

20. If 12 oxen will eat 3 acres and one-third of grass in four weeks
and 21 oxen will eat 10 acres in 9 weeks--how many oxen will eat 24
acres in 18 weeks, the grass being allowed to grow uniformly?

21. A lady was asked her age, who replied thus:

  My age, if multiplied by three,
  Two-sevenths of that product tripled be,
  The square root of two-ninths of that is four--
  Now tell my age, or never see me more.




Answers to Batch of Puzzles.


1. The letter E.

  “Persevere, ye perfect men!
   Ever keep these precepts ten.”

2. If the grate be empty, put some coal on; but if the grate be full,
stop.

3. Difference 50, product 7656.

4. 144808.

5. 448 lbs.

6. 40.

7. 32.

8. 72.

9. 10.

10. H 30, K 50 and L 80.

11. 20 and 50.

12. 36.

13. 62.

14. 114.

15. 73-1/2 years.

16. 107.

17. 96.

18. 216 miles.

19. 10-1/2 years the man, 31-1/2 years the woman.

20. 30.

21. 28 years.




Arithmetical Puzzle.


  The sum of four figures, in value will be
  Above seven thousand, nine hundred and three;
  But when they are halved, you’ll find very fair
  The sum will be nothing, in truth I declare.




Answer to Arithmetical Puzzle.


The four figures are 8888, which, being divided by a line drawn through
the middle, becomes

  0000
  0000

the sum of which is eight 0s, or nothing.

Send 12 cents to the firm from whom you received this book, and get the
Marvelous Package of Games, including checkers, dominoes, authors, etc.
Biggest bargain lot of Games ever offered.




Magic Age Table.


   1  2  4  8 16 32
   3  3  5  9 17 33
   5  6  6 10 19 34
   7  7  7 11 18 35
   9 10 12 12 20 36
  11 11 13 13 21 37
  13 14 14 14 22 38
  15 15 15 15 23 39
  17 18 20 24 24 40
  19 19 21 25 25 41
  21 22 22 26 26 42
  23 23 23 27 27 43
  25 26 28 28 28 44
  27 27 29 29 29 45
  29 30 30 30 30 46
  31 31 31 31 31 47
  33 34 36 40 48 48
  35 35 37 41 49 49
  37 38 38 42 50 50
  39 38 39 43 51 51
  41 42 44 44 52 52
  43 43 45 45 53 53
  45 46 46 46 54 54
  47 47 47 47 55 55
  49 50 52 56 56 56
  51 51 53 57 57 57
  53 54 54 58 58 58
  55 55 55 59 59 59
  57 58 60 60 60 60
  59 59 61 61 61 61
  61 62 62 62 62 62
  63 63 63 63 63 63

KEY TO TABLE.--Add together the figures at the top of each column in
which the age is found and the sum will be the age sought. Example:
Hand the table to a lady and request her to tell you in which column
or columns her age is found; if she says the first, second and fifth,
you can say it is 19 by mentally adding together the first figures of
those three columns, and so on for any age up to 63.




Cracked Nuts.


“Parlor Matches”--Courting in the front room.

All men are not homeless, but some are home less than others.

A young Oil City gent calls his girl revenge, because she is sweet.

When is a small baby like a big banker? When he is a wroth-child.

Before slates were used people multiplied on the face of the earth.

How may a man always become four-handed? By doubling his fists.

The economical baby puts its toes in its mouth to make both ends meet.

There’s nothing boisterous about the love for whiskey--it’s a still
affection.

Why is a situation of great trust like a back tooth? Because it is hard
to fill.

In art matters the education of the eye, of course, includes the proper
treatment of the pupils.

Why are balloons in the air like vagabonds? Because they have no
visible means of support.

Jones calls his dog Hickory, because he has a rough bark.

The only perpetual thing about perpetual motion is its failure.

Some shoemakers are notoriously long-lived--the lasters, for instance.

Billiards must be an easy game, for it’s mostly done on cushions.

Ricrac is a tidy affair.--_Barber’s Gazette._

Domestic “sauce” is kept in family jars.

Bronze is a very fashionable hue nowadays, but brass has not entirely
gone out.

The _Barber’s Gazette_, of New York City, has failed. It was strapped.
Next!

A man with a noisy dog calls him “Tree,” because all the bark is on the
outside.

Society is a fraction whose numerator is clothes and whose denominator
is cash.

To introduce our celebrated Perfume, we will send a case postpaid,
for 12 cents. We will mail with it, _absolutely free_, a beautiful
gold plated Garnet and Opal ring. Send 12 cents in stamps and we will
surprise and delight you. Address: W. S. Everett & Co., Lynn, Mass.

Flats are growing popular in New York. New York “flats” are unpopular
the country over.

We fear the Montreal courts will hold that the matter of compulsory
vaccination is ultra virus.

It is generally when you are not looking out for a woman that you get
on her trail.

The best telephone bell--The hello girl at the other end of the line.

The poetry of motion--A picnic girl with a bug down her back.

In some of our down town restaurants, macadamized pie crust seems to be
very popular.

The letter D is truly an old salt--been following the C for years.

“How to get fat”--Go to the butcher shop and purchase it by the pound.

The expense of evening walks is diminished now that ice cream has been
called in.

A classical farmer in Burlington Township names all his pigs after the
Greek roots.

Approaching a Crisis--Walking toward a restless girl baby.

A Boston girl visiting in Danbury claims to wear limbbings during
severe weather.

Blessed is the man who loveth his wife’s relations; and not only
blessed, but also scarce.

Love laughs at locksmiths, but we defy anybody or anything to laugh at
a plumber.

The _Rochester Express_ complains that the mornings get up too early.

The difference between a woman and an umbrella is, that you can shut up
an umbrella.

Youth--“Pa, give me an example of a ‘floating debt.’” Pa--(sadly)--“My
yacht.”

A cold wave--The preliminary flourish of the handkerchief.

A goose is an inoffensive fowl, and yet everybody gets down on her.

When a man bows assent to what you are saying he stoops to concur.

If you lack pluck, just eat buckwheat cakes. They’ll make you come to
the scratch.

The church festival season is nearly over, and the solitary oyster will
soon be out of his stew.

Talk is cheap, but the love prattle of a pretty girl is dear.

A flirt’s heart is like an omnibus--it always has room for one more.

He was “Claude” before he married her, and they say he was more clawed
afterward.

He--“The music was so loud that I couldn’t hear myself talk.” She
(bored)--“Oh, how nice!”

Slight of Hand--Refusing a marriage proposal.

It takes a Japanese girl thirteen hours to dress for a party.

Sweetening one’s coffee is the first stirring event of the day.

Free! We will send you an elegant large magazine 6 months, free, if you
send 10 cents to have your name and address inserted in our Directory,
which goes to over 1000 publishers, importers, etc., who will send you
samples of new goods, latest books, newspapers, catalogues, etc. You
will get a big mail daily. All at a cost of 10 cents. W. S. Everett &
Co., Publishers, Lynn, Mass.

A lightning express would be unsafe were it not for the conductor.

Whatever the season, a gymnast wears both spring and fall clothing.

It is beauty’s privilege to kill time, and time’s privilege to kill
beauty.

“I am climbin’ the ’ill of experience,” as the boy said who was made
sick by smoking.

Strange behavior--A vessel “hugging” the coast.

What is the great want of the age?--Want of funds.

When is the water most liable to escape?--When it is only half tide.

The violinist who “carried the house by storm” used a rain bow
afterward.

Even a clothes line becomes unsteady when it has too many sheets in the
wind.

“Mankind,” said the preacher, “includes woman; for man embraces woman.”

When is a ship like a dressmaker?--When she’s rounding the Cape or
tacking about.

“The only way to look at a lady’s faults,” exclaimed a gallant, “is to
shut your eyes.”

“Cutter & Fitts” are said to be the names of the fashionable
dressmakers in New York.

Handsome is as handsome drives without upsetting the hansom.

Those who toil and spin--The bicycle riders.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Notes:

Punctuation has been made consistent.

Variations in spelling and hyphenation were retained as they appear in
the original publication, except that obvious typographical errors have
been corrected.

The following changes were made:

p. 8: In question 5, “tons” means “long tons” (than 3 tons).

p. 11: The correct answer to question 16 is 167 (16. 107.).

p. 13: Partially illegible word assumed to be “thirteen” (girl thirteen
hours).

p. 13: Partially illegible phrase assumed to be “coffee is the first
stirring event” (Sweetening one’s coffee is the first stirring event
of).

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NUTS TO CRACK, MULTUM IN PARVO
LIBRARY, V. 2, NO. 20, AUGUST 1895 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
